Hey welcome everyone.
We've made it to my very favorite topic in the course and honestly my favorite topic in all of teaching
web development the dorm.
So this is very exciting stuff in my opinion.
I look forward to it every time I teach and when I teach Boot Camps In person it's my favorite week.
Favorite two weeks.
It's really fun stuff because we start to connect javascript with each team out and CSX.
This is where I think javascript starts to become a lot more exciting and certainly more visual.
You can start to make things with interfaces things that you can see enough of the console not logging.
So I always look forward to it.
Hopefully you're excited about it especially if you've never worked with the DRM.
You don't know what it is.
There is a lot to cover here.
It won't fit into one section.
We have multiple sections.
I have a couple of examples I'd like to show of things that we could build after you learn how to manipulate
and work with the DOM.
So there's some simple ones like here's a form where as I start typing notice the place holder text
here that says Last name.
If I put something in here like Chaplin.
Notice how the text went down below as a label.
And then if I delete it.
It goes back up.
Very simple little tiny touch but that's done with javascript.
So we have the form that is just H2 Mel and CSX.
We don't need javascript to make that work if I comment the javascript out.
Well I just deleted it.
That's commented out.
We still have the form here but now we're not getting that interactive element.
It still looks the same but we don't get that behavior.
Here's another example.
This is a fun Well fun is relative.
It's a game that is a memory game where you have to match different cards and flip them over.
I'm terrible at it but I really like the interface at the beginning when you start you get this nice
little flip of the card when you click instructions and then you can click here to actually begin the
game and select a level.
So the content itself is HD here amounts to assess if I comment all of that out select it commented
out.
We still have the exact same interface.
It just doesn't do anything.
I'm clicking maybe you can hear that through the mike but we don't get any behavior.
We're just seeing that content.
It's basically static.
Little blocks of color with some letters but we add JavaScript in and now they do something when I click
and I can play the game go to casual like I said I'm horrible at this game.
But the just very act of clicking on something and having it change in any way changing the color having
it flip revealing the symbol that is all JavaScript.
The cards themselves are HD amounts.
Yes it's very hard for me to even attempt to play this while talking.
So I'm already terrible to begin with.
But as you can see we've also got this time we're going across the top highly stressful.
I'm just clicking randomly at this point and one more match before the end.
All right.
So again this is all javascript functionality.
This is javascript that is making the game logic that it is checking if we get a match.
It's checking oh jeez it's checking to see if a card has already been clicked on or if the timer has
finished.
If you still can play or if it's game over here's another example.
This is another nice form where we have different steps of the form little animations that are triggered.
So we go from step 1 to step 3.
Each time I click I'm just seeing each timeouts assess if I remove all javascript one more time.
We still have the exact same content.
It just doesn't do anything.
I can't go from one step to the next.
We add JavaScript in and it's now an interactive almost like a different set being shown on a stage.
When you go see a musical or performance a new set being swapped in and the colors are changing up here
to tell you which step you're on.
So nothing crazy but this is all done with JavaScript all the interactivity and then now for something
a little crazier much more complex.
This is on YouTube.
This is a recorded livestream of really cool musician.
Very funny guy Marc rabbit.
It doesn't matter who it is anyway.
Over here we've got comments.
Hopefully nothing super inappropriate and as I play the video you can see these comments start to come
in and there sinks to when they were actually submitted.
Back when this was live I can click to hide.
I can show it again.
This is all happening through javascript.
These elements are being added to the page in conjunction or in time in sync with this video.
They're being added here so even something just like hiding and showing is done with JavaScript being
able to pause video and have this stop.
We don't get those new comments now that's done with JavaScript.
If I fast forward I get new comments.
That's done with JavaScript So javascript the DOM.
Very exciting stuff.
This is where we start to take each team agency assess and control it update it or even just read it
and understand it.
Using javascript so something like this is made by a team.
Obviously a huge team at YouTube but things like a form or a memory game.
The code is really not that bad but the thing about the DOM that I'll tell you right now is that you
have to use tons and tons of methods and properties that we haven't seen before.
So remember when we saw arrays or we saw strings and I talked about here's 20 methods set arrays have
when we work with the DOM we have at least 20 maybe 50 different methods 50 different properties and
it takes time to get to know the one to use the most.
And it's also imperative that you don't try and understand and learn every single property.
That's something I'll bring up as we make some more progress.
The Dom is just a huge thing.
There's so much to that you could stress about trying to learn and memorize.
Don't approach it that way.
We're gonna go step by step and in the next video we'll take our first step into this Beautiful promised
land of the Dom.